Project Overview
The Online Bank Management System is a full-stack application designed to streamline banking operations and enhance customer convenience. Developed entirely in Java and integrated with a MySQL database using XAMPP, this system provides a secure, scalable, and user-friendly platform for managing financial transactions, accounts, and other banking services. It addresses the growing demand for digital banking by enabling customers and administrators to interact seamlessly through a robust, feature-rich system.

Features
User Authentication: Secure login system with role-based access controls for customers and administrators.
Account Management: Create, update, and view account details efficiently.
Fund Transfers: Perform inter-account and inter-bank money transfers with transaction tracking.
Loan Management: Apply for and manage loans with real-time status updates.
Transaction History: View detailed records of deposits, withdrawals, and other transactions.
Bill Payments: Pay utility bills directly through the platform.
Dashboard: User-friendly GUI for simplified navigation and operations.
Scalable Architecture: Designed to support a growing user base with minimal modifications.
Technologies Used
Frontend: Java Swing (GUI development).
Backend: Core Java with JDBC for database interaction.
Database: MySQL (via XAMPP for local server setup).
Development Environment: Apache NetBeans IDE.
System Requirements
Java Version: JDK 11 or higher.
Database Server: MySQL (via XAMPP).
Operating System: Windows/Linux/MacOS.
IDE: NetBeans or any Java-supporting IDE.
Setup Instructions
Install Prerequisites: Ensure JDK and XAMPP are installed.
Database Setup:
Start the MySQL server in XAMPP.
Import the provided SQL script (database.sql) to create the necessary tables and schema.
Clone the Repository:
bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/OnlineBankManagementSystem.git  
Configure Database Connection:
Update the database credentials in the DBConnection.java file.
Ensure the MySQL server and database details are correctly specified.
Run the Application:
Open the project in NetBeans or your preferred IDE.
Compile and run the Main.java file to start the application.
Future Enhancements
Integration with mobile platforms for Android and iOS.
AI-driven features like fraud detection and personalized financial advice.
Blockchain-based transaction records for enhanced security.
Cloud integration for scalability and disaster recovery.
Voice-based banking services through virtual assistants like Alexa and Google Assistant.
Contribution
Contributions are welcome! Feel free to submit issues, feature requests, or pull requests to improve the project.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Acknowledgments
Oracle Java Documentation
Apache NetBeans IDE Community
XAMPP by Apache Friends
